# Thesis gambling game 

* I programmed this game for my undergrad honors thesis, *An exploration of stress, gender, and risk preference in the financial and prosocial domains*
* A modified version of the game used in the experiment: `thesis_gamblingGame.py`. The original wrote participants' bets and winnings to a CSV and did not show them their winnings.
* The game was designed to separate participants' baseline risk preference (as measured in game 1, when all expected values are the same) from their rational risk preference (as measured in game 2, when riskier investments have higher expected returns), two things that are often conflated in traditional behavioral economics tasks
* Instructions for the game: `game_instructions.md`
* Expected values: `expected_returns.md`. Note: this was not shown to participants.

<br><br>

#### Abstract

Economists’ models of decision behavior generally assume a rational actor who weighs the costs and benefits of various options before choosing the one most likely to maximize his or her utility. However, behavioral economists have shown that, by this definition, most people would not be considered rational actors as they often display systematic biases in their decision-making. There is some evidence to suggest that these irrational biases are exacerbated under stress. The present study investigated the effects of stress on financial as well as prosocial risk behavior in men and women. Participants’ financial and prosocial risk preferences were assessed after psychosocial stress and in a control condition. Measurements of testosterone and cortisol concentrations obtained via saliva sample were used to verify the efficacy of the stress manipulation and determine whether these hormones modulate risk preference in a control condition and under stress. For the financial task, a novel computerized gambling game was used to distinguish rationality from risk seeking. This research also tested the hypothesis that stress would influence financial and prosocial risk-taking in different ways in men and women. To test whether such a gender effect is the product of socialization, half of the participants were primed with their gender before they began the tasks, a mechanism designed to make them act more in accordance with socially-learned gender stereotypes. Analyses indicate that there was a significant main effect of stress on prosocial risk-taking with stressed participants showing higher prosocial risk seeking than controls, regardless of gender. There was a marginally significant interaction between the effects of stress and gender on financial risk-taking: women became more financially risk seeking under stress while men became less financially risk-seeking. The gender priming manipulation had no significant effect. Hormonal analyses have not yet been completed.